README.md, before:

# Delineate Hackathon Challenge - CUET Fest 2025

## The Scenario

This microservice simulates a **real-world file download system** where processing times vary significantly:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        Download Processing Time                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Fast Downloads    ████████░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  ~10-15s    │
│  Medium Downloads  ████████████████████░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  ~30-60s    │
│  Slow Downloads    ████████████████████████████████████████  ~60-120s   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Why does this matter?**

When you deploy this service behind a reverse proxy (Cloudflare, nginx, AWS ALB), you'll encounter:

| Problem                 | Impact                                        |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Connection Timeouts** | Cloudflare's 100s timeout kills long requests |
| **Gateway Errors**      | Users see 504 errors for slow downloads       |
| **Poor UX**             | No progress feedback during long waits        |
| **Resource Waste**      | Open connections consume server memory        |

**Try it yourself:**

```bash
# Start the server (10-120s random delays)
npm run start

# This request will likely timeout (REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS=30s)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# Watch the server logs - you'll see:
# [Download] Starting file_id=70000 | delay=85.3s (range: 10s-120s) | enabled=true
```

**Your challenge:** Design solutions that handle these variable processing times gracefully!

---

## Hackathon Challenges

| Challenge                           | Max Points | Difficulty |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Challenge 1: S3 Storage Integration | 15         | Medium     |
| Challenge 2: Architecture Design    | 15         | Hard       |
| Challenge 3: CI/CD Pipeline         | 10         | Medium     |
| Challenge 4: Observability (Bonus)  | 10         | Hard       |
| **Maximum Total**                   | **50**     |            |

---

### Challenge 1: Self-Hosted S3 Storage Integration

#### Your Mission

The current Docker configuration does not include a self-hosted S3-compatible storage service. Your challenge is to:

1. **Modify the Docker Compose files** (`docker/compose.dev.yml` and/or `docker/compose.prod.yml`) to include a self-hosted S3-compatible storage service
2. **Configure the API** to connect to your storage service
3. **Verify** the health endpoint returns `"storage": "ok"`

#### Recommended S3-Compatible Storage Options

##### Option 1: RustFS (Recommended)

[RustFS](https://github.com/rustfs/rustfs) is a lightweight, high-performance S3-compatible object storage written in Rust.

##### Option 2: MinIO

[MinIO](https://min.io) is a popular, production-ready S3-compatible object storage.

#### Requirements

Your solution must:

- [ ] Add an S3-compatible storage service to Docker Compose
- [ ] Create the required bucket (`downloads`) on startup
- [ ] Configure proper networking between services
- [ ] Update environment variables to connect the API to storage
- [ ] Pass all E2E tests (`npm run test:e2e`)
- [ ] Health endpoint must return `{"status": "healthy", "checks": {"storage": "ok"}}`

#### Hints

1. The API expects these S3 environment variables:
   - `S3_ENDPOINT` - Your storage service URL (e.g., `http://minio:9000`)
   - `S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID` - Access key
   - `S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` - Secret key
   - `S3_BUCKET_NAME` - Bucket name (use `downloads`)
   - `S3_FORCE_PATH_STYLE` - Set to `true` for self-hosted S3

2. Services in Docker Compose can communicate using service names as hostnames

3. You may need an init container or script to create the bucket

4. Check the `/health` endpoint to verify storage connectivity

#### Testing Your Solution

```bash
# Run the full test suite
npm run test:e2e

# Or test manually
curl http://localhost:3000/health
# Expected: {"status":"healthy","checks":{"storage":"ok"}}

curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/check \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'
```

---

### Challenge 2: Long-Running Download Architecture Design

#### The Problem

This microservice handles file downloads that can vary significantly in processing time:

- **Fast downloads**: Complete within ~10 seconds
- **Slow downloads**: Can take up to 120+ seconds

When integrating this service with a frontend application or external services behind a reverse proxy (like **Cloudflare**, **nginx**, or **AWS ALB**), you will encounter critical issues:

1. **Connection Timeouts**: Proxies like Cloudflare have default timeouts (100 seconds) and will terminate long-running HTTP connections
2. **User Experience**: Users waiting 2+ minutes with no feedback leads to poor UX
3. **Resource Exhaustion**: Holding HTTP connections open for extended periods consumes server resources
4. **Retry Storms**: If a client's connection is dropped, they may retry, creating duplicate work

#### Experience the Problem

```bash
# Start with production delays (10-120 seconds)
npm run start

# Try to download - this will likely timeout!
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# Server logs will show something like:
# [Download] Starting file_id=70000 | delay=95.2s (range: 10s-120s) | enabled=true
# But your request times out at 30 seconds (REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS)
```

#### Your Mission

Write a **complete implementation plan** that addresses how to integrate this download microservice with a fullstack application while handling variable download times gracefully.

#### Deliverables

Create a document (`ARCHITECTURE.md`) that includes:

##### 1. Architecture Diagram

- Visual representation of the proposed system
- Show all components and their interactions
- Include data flow for both fast and slow downloads

##### 2. Technical Approach

Choose and justify ONE of these patterns (or propose your own):

**Option A: Polling Pattern**

```
Client → POST /download/initiate → Returns jobId immediately
Client → GET /download/status/:jobId (poll every N seconds)
Client → GET /download/:jobId (when ready)
```

**Option B: WebSocket/SSE Pattern**

```
Client → POST /download/initiate → Returns jobId
Client → WS /download/subscribe/:jobId (real-time updates)
Server → Pushes progress updates → Client
```

**Option C: Webhook/Callback Pattern**

```
Client → POST /download/initiate { callbackUrl: "..." }
Server → Processes download asynchronously
Server → POST callbackUrl with result when complete
```

**Option D: Hybrid Approach**

Combine multiple patterns based on use case.

##### 3. Implementation Details

For your chosen approach, document:

- **API contract changes** required to the existing endpoints
- **New endpoints** that need to be created
- **Database/cache schema** for tracking job status
- **Background job processing** strategy (queue system, worker processes)
- **Error handling** and retry logic
- **Timeout configuration** at each layer

##### 4. Proxy Configuration

Provide example configurations for handling this with:

- Cloudflare (timeout settings, WebSocket support)
- nginx (proxy timeouts, buffering)
- Or your preferred reverse proxy

##### 5. Frontend Integration

Describe how a React/Next.js frontend would:

- Initiate downloads
- Show progress to users
- Handle completion/failure states
- Implement retry logic

#### Hints

1. Consider what happens when a user closes their browser mid-download
2. Think about how to handle multiple concurrent downloads per user
3. Consider cost implications of your chosen queue/database system
4. Research: Redis, BullMQ, AWS SQS, Server-Sent Events, WebSockets
5. Look into presigned S3 URLs for direct downloads

---

### Challenge 3: CI/CD Pipeline Setup

#### Your Mission

Set up a complete CI/CD pipeline for this service using a cloud provider's CI/CD platform. The pipeline must run all tests automatically on every push.

#### Requirements

##### Choose One Cloud Provider

##### Pipeline Stages

Your pipeline must include these stages:

```
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│    Lint     │───▶│    Test     │───▶│    Build    │───▶│   Deploy    │
│  (ESLint,   │    │   (E2E)     │    │  (Docker)   │    │ (Optional)  │
│  Prettier)  │    │             │    │             │    │             │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
```

##### Deliverables

1. **Pipeline Configuration File**
   - `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (GitHub Actions)
   - Equivalent for your chosen provider

2. **Pipeline must**:
   - [ ] Trigger on push to `main`/`master` branch
   - [ ] Trigger on pull requests
   - [ ] Run linting (`npm run lint`)
   - [ ] Run format check (`npm run format:check`)
   - [ ] Run E2E tests (`npm run test:e2e`)
   - [ ] Build Docker image
   - [ ] Cache dependencies for faster builds
   - [ ] Fail fast on errors
   - [ ] Report test results clearly

3. **Documentation**
   - Add a "CI/CD" section to README with:
     - Badge showing pipeline status
     - Instructions for contributors
     - How to run tests locally before pushing

##### Example: GitHub Actions (Reference)

A basic GitHub Actions workflow is already provided at `.github/workflows/ci.yml`. You may:

- Enhance the existing workflow
- Migrate to a different provider
- Add additional features (caching, parallelization, deployment)

##### Bonus Points

- Set up automatic deployment to a cloud platform (Railway, Render, Fly.io, etc.)
- Add security scanning (Snyk, CodeQL, Trivy)
- Implement branch protection rules
- Add Slack/Discord notifications for build status

---

### Challenge 4: Observability Dashboard (Bonus)

#### Your Mission

Build a simple React UI that integrates with **Sentry** for error tracking and **OpenTelemetry** for distributed tracing, providing visibility into the download service's health and performance.

#### Testing Sentry Integration

The API includes a built-in way to test Sentry error tracking:

```bash
# Trigger an intentional error for Sentry testing
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/v1/download/check?sentry_test=true" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# Response: {"error":"Internal Server Error","message":"Sentry test error..."}
# This error should appear in your Sentry dashboard!
```

#### Requirements

##### 1. React Application Setup

Create a React application (using Vite or Next.js) that:

- Connects to this download API
- Displays download job status
- Shows real-time error tracking
- Visualizes trace data

##### 2. Sentry Integration

**Features to implement**:

- [ ] Error boundary wrapping the entire app
- [ ] Automatic error capture for failed API calls
- [ ] User feedback dialog on errors
- [ ] Performance monitoring for page loads
- [ ] Custom error logging for business logic errors

##### 3. OpenTelemetry Integration

**Features to implement**:

- [ ] Trace propagation from frontend to backend
- [ ] Custom spans for user interactions
- [ ] Correlation of frontend and backend traces
- [ ] Display trace IDs in the UI for debugging

##### 4. Dashboard Features

Build a dashboard that displays:

| Feature             | Description                                  |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Health Status       | Real-time API health from `/health` endpoint |
| Download Jobs       | List of initiated downloads with status      |
| Error Log           | Recent errors captured by Sentry             |
| Trace Viewer        | Link to Jaeger UI or embedded trace view     |
| Performance Metrics | API response times, success/failure rates    |

##### 5. Correlation

Ensure end-to-end traceability:

```
User clicks "Download" button
    │
    ▼
Frontend creates span with trace-id: abc123
    │
    ▼
API request includes header: traceparent: 00-abc123-...
    │
    ▼
Backend logs include: trace_id=abc123
    │
    ▼
Errors in Sentry tagged with: trace_id=abc123
```

#### Deliverables

1. **React Application** in a `frontend/` directory
2. **Docker Compose** update to include:
   - Frontend service
   - Jaeger UI accessible for trace viewing
3. **Documentation** on how to:
   - Set up Sentry project and get DSN
   - Configure OpenTelemetry collector
   - Run the full stack locally

#### Resources

- [Sentry React SDK](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/react/)
- [OpenTelemetry JavaScript](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/)
- [Jaeger UI](https://www.jaegertracing.io/)
- [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/)

---

## Technical Requirements

| Requirement    | Version    |
| -------------- | ---------- |
| Node.js        | >= 24.10.0 |
| npm            | >= 10.x    |
| Docker         | >= 24.x    |
| Docker Compose | >= 2.x     |

## Tech Stack

- **Runtime**: Node.js 24 with native TypeScript support
- **Framework**: [Hono](https://hono.dev) - Ultra-fast web framework
- **Validation**: [Zod](https://zod.dev) with OpenAPI integration
- **Storage**: AWS S3 SDK (S3-compatible)
- **Observability**: OpenTelemetry + Jaeger
- **Error Tracking**: Sentry
- **Documentation**: Scalar OpenAPI UI

## Quick Start

### Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Create environment file
cp .env.example .env

# Start development server (with hot reload, 5-15s delays)
npm run dev

# Or start production server (10-120s delays)
npm run start
```

The server will start at http://localhost:3000

- API Documentation: http://localhost:3000/docs
- OpenAPI Spec: http://localhost:3000/openapi

### Using Docker

```bash
# Development mode (with Jaeger tracing)
npm run docker:dev

# Production mode
npm run docker:prod
```

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# Server
NODE_ENV=development
PORT=3000

# S3 Configuration
S3_REGION=us-east-1
S3_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:9000
S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=minioadmin
S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=minioadmin
S3_BUCKET_NAME=downloads
S3_FORCE_PATH_STYLE=true

# Observability (optional)
SENTRY_DSN=
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4318

# Rate Limiting
REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS=30000
RATE_LIMIT_WINDOW_MS=60000
RATE_LIMIT_MAX_REQUESTS=100

# CORS
CORS_ORIGINS=*

# Download Delay Simulation
DOWNLOAD_DELAY_ENABLED=true
DOWNLOAD_DELAY_MIN_MS=10000
DOWNLOAD_DELAY_MAX_MS=200000
```

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint                | Description                         |
| ------ | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| GET    | `/`                     | Welcome message                     |
| GET    | `/health`               | Health check with storage status    |
| POST   | `/v1/download/initiate` | Initiate bulk download job          |
| POST   | `/v1/download/check`    | Check single file availability      |
| POST   | `/v1/download/start`    | Start download with simulated delay |

### Testing the Long-Running Download

```bash
# With dev server (5-15s delays)
npm run dev
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# With production server (10-120s delays) - may timeout!
npm run start
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'
```

## Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start dev server (5-15s delays, hot reload)
npm run start        # Start production server (10-120s delays)
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
npm run lint:fix     # Fix linting issues
npm run format       # Format code with Prettier
npm run format:check # Check code formatting
npm run test:e2e     # Run E2E tests
npm run docker:dev   # Start with Docker (development)
npm run docker:prod  # Start with Docker (production)
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   └── index.ts          # Main application entry point
├── scripts/
│   ├── e2e-test.ts       # E2E test suite
│   └── run-e2e.ts        # Test runner with server management
├── docker/
│   ├── Dockerfile.dev    # Development Dockerfile
│   ├── Dockerfile.prod   # Production Dockerfile
│   ├── compose.dev.yml   # Development Docker Compose
│   └── compose.prod.yml  # Production Docker Compose
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── ci.yml        # GitHub Actions CI pipeline
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── eslint.config.mjs
```

## Security Features

- Request ID tracking for distributed tracing
- Rate limiting with configurable windows
- Security headers (HSTS, X-Frame-Options, etc.)
- CORS configuration
- Input validation with Zod schemas
- Path traversal prevention for S3 keys
- Graceful shutdown handling

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: Implement CI/CD pipeline with S3 integration and security scan

README.md, after:

# Delineate Hackathon Challenge for Node.js

[![CI](https://github.com/nahidgaziang/cuethack/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nahidgaziang/cuethack/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Welcome to the Delineate Hackathon Challenge! This is a hypothetical scenario designed to test your skills in **System Design**, **Infrastructure**, **CI/CD**, and **Performance Optimization**.

## CI/CD Pipeline

This project uses GitHub Actions for Continuous Integration. The pipeline includes:
*   **Linting**: ESLint and Prettier checks.
*   **Testing**: Full E2E test suite running against a real S3-compatible service (RustFS).
*   **Security**: Vulnerability scanning using Trivy.
*   **Build**: Docker image build and caching.

### Running Tests Locally
To run the E2E tests locally:
```bash
# 1. Start the development environment
npm run docker:dev

# 2. Run the tests inside the container (recommended)
docker exec delineate-delineate-app-1 npm run test:e2e
```

## The Scenario

This microservice simulates a **real-world file download system** where processing times vary significantly:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        Download Processing Time                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Fast Downloads    ████████░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  ~10-15s    │
│  Medium Downloads  ████████████████████░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  ~30-60s    │
│  Slow Downloads    ████████████████████████████████████████  ~60-120s   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Why does this matter?**

When you deploy this service behind a reverse proxy (Cloudflare, nginx, AWS ALB), you'll encounter:

| Problem                 | Impact                                        |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Connection Timeouts** | Cloudflare's 100s timeout kills long requests |
| **Gateway Errors**      | Users see 504 errors for slow downloads       |
| **Poor UX**             | No progress feedback during long waits        |
| **Resource Waste**      | Open connections consume server memory        |

**Try it yourself:**

```bash
# Start the server (10-120s random delays)
npm run start

# This request will likely timeout (REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS=30s)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# Watch the server logs - you'll see:
# [Download] Starting file_id=70000 | delay=85.3s (range: 10s-120s) | enabled=true
```

**Your challenge:** Design solutions that handle these variable processing times gracefully!

---

## Hackathon Challenges

| Challenge                           | Max Points | Difficulty |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Challenge 1: S3 Storage Integration | 15         | Medium     |
| Challenge 2: Architecture Design    | 15         | Hard       |
| Challenge 3: CI/CD Pipeline         | 10         | Medium     |
| Challenge 4: Observability (Bonus)  | 10         | Hard       |
| **Maximum Total**                   | **50**     |            |

---

### Challenge 1: Self-Hosted S3 Storage Integration

#### Your Mission

The current Docker configuration does not include a self-hosted S3-compatible storage service. Your challenge is to:

1. **Modify the Docker Compose files** (`docker/compose.dev.yml` and/or `docker/compose.prod.yml`) to include a self-hosted S3-compatible storage service
2. **Configure the API** to connect to your storage service
3. **Verify** the health endpoint returns `"storage": "ok"`

#### Recommended S3-Compatible Storage Options

##### Option 1: RustFS (Recommended)

[RustFS](https://github.com/rustfs/rustfs) is a lightweight, high-performance S3-compatible object storage written in Rust.

##### Option 2: MinIO

[MinIO](https://min.io) is a popular, production-ready S3-compatible object storage.

#### Requirements

Your solution must:

- [ ] Add an S3-compatible storage service to Docker Compose
- [ ] Create the required bucket (`downloads`) on startup
- [ ] Configure proper networking between services
- [ ] Update environment variables to connect the API to storage
- [ ] Pass all E2E tests (`npm run test:e2e`)
- [ ] Health endpoint must return `{"status": "healthy", "checks": {"storage": "ok"}}`

#### Hints

1. The API expects these S3 environment variables:
   - `S3_ENDPOINT` - Your storage service URL (e.g., `http://minio:9000`)
   - `S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID` - Access key
   - `S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` - Secret key
   - `S3_BUCKET_NAME` - Bucket name (use `downloads`)
   - `S3_FORCE_PATH_STYLE` - Set to `true` for self-hosted S3

2. Services in Docker Compose can communicate using service names as hostnames

3. You may need an init container or script to create the bucket

4. Check the `/health` endpoint to verify storage connectivity

#### Testing Your Solution

```bash
# Run the full test suite
npm run test:e2e

# Or test manually
curl http://localhost:3000/health
# Expected: {"status":"healthy","checks":{"storage":"ok"}}

curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/check \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'
```

---

### Challenge 2: Long-Running Download Architecture Design

#### The Problem

This microservice handles file downloads that can vary significantly in processing time:

- **Fast downloads**: Complete within ~10 seconds
- **Slow downloads**: Can take up to 120+ seconds

When integrating this service with a frontend application or external services behind a reverse proxy (like **Cloudflare**, **nginx**, or **AWS ALB**), you will encounter critical issues:

1. **Connection Timeouts**: Proxies like Cloudflare have default timeouts (100 seconds) and will terminate long-running HTTP connections
2. **User Experience**: Users waiting 2+ minutes with no feedback leads to poor UX
3. **Resource Exhaustion**: Holding HTTP connections open for extended periods consumes server resources
4. **Retry Storms**: If a client's connection is dropped, they may retry, creating duplicate work

#### Experience the Problem

```bash
# Start with production delays (10-120 seconds)
npm run start

# Try to download - this will likely timeout!
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# Server logs will show something like:
# [Download] Starting file_id=70000 | delay=95.2s (range: 10s-120s) | enabled=true
# But your request times out at 30 seconds (REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS)
```

#### Your Mission

Write a **complete implementation plan** that addresses how to integrate this download microservice with a fullstack application while handling variable download times gracefully.

#### Deliverables

Create a document (`ARCHITECTURE.md`) that includes:

##### 1. Architecture Diagram

- Visual representation of the proposed system
- Show all components and their interactions
- Include data flow for both fast and slow downloads

##### 2. Technical Approach

Choose and justify ONE of these patterns (or propose your own):

**Option A: Polling Pattern**

```
Client → POST /download/initiate → Returns jobId immediately
Client → GET /download/status/:jobId (poll every N seconds)
Client → GET /download/:jobId (when ready)
```

**Option B: WebSocket/SSE Pattern**

```
Client → POST /download/initiate → Returns jobId
Client → WS /download/subscribe/:jobId (real-time updates)
Server → Pushes progress updates → Client
```

**Option C: Webhook/Callback Pattern**

```
Client → POST /download/initiate { callbackUrl: "..." }
Server → Processes download asynchronously
Server → POST callbackUrl with result when complete
```

**Option D: Hybrid Approach**

Combine multiple patterns based on use case.

##### 3. Implementation Details

For your chosen approach, document:

- **API contract changes** required to the existing endpoints
- **New endpoints** that need to be created
- **Database/cache schema** for tracking job status
- **Background job processing** strategy (queue system, worker processes)
- **Error handling** and retry logic
- **Timeout configuration** at each layer

##### 4. Proxy Configuration

Provide example configurations for handling this with:

- Cloudflare (timeout settings, WebSocket support)
- nginx (proxy timeouts, buffering)
- Or your preferred reverse proxy

##### 5. Frontend Integration

Describe how a React/Next.js frontend would:

- Initiate downloads
- Show progress to users
- Handle completion/failure states
- Implement retry logic

#### Hints

1. Consider what happens when a user closes their browser mid-download
2. Think about how to handle multiple concurrent downloads per user
3. Consider cost implications of your chosen queue/database system
4. Research: Redis, BullMQ, AWS SQS, Server-Sent Events, WebSockets
5. Look into presigned S3 URLs for direct downloads

---

### Challenge 3: CI/CD Pipeline Setup

#### Your Mission

Set up a complete CI/CD pipeline for this service using a cloud provider's CI/CD platform. The pipeline must run all tests automatically on every push.

#### Requirements

##### Choose One Cloud Provider

##### Pipeline Stages

Your pipeline must include these stages:

```
┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│    Lint     │───▶│    Test     │───▶│    Build    │───▶│   Deploy    │
│  (ESLint,   │    │   (E2E)     │    │  (Docker)   │    │ (Optional)  │
│  Prettier)  │    │             │    │             │    │             │
└─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘
```

##### Deliverables

1. **Pipeline Configuration File**
   - `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (GitHub Actions)
   - Equivalent for your chosen provider

2. **Pipeline must**:
   - [ ] Trigger on push to `main`/`master` branch
   - [ ] Trigger on pull requests
   - [ ] Run linting (`npm run lint`)
   - [ ] Run format check (`npm run format:check`)
   - [ ] Run E2E tests (`npm run test:e2e`)
   - [ ] Build Docker image
   - [ ] Cache dependencies for faster builds
   - [ ] Fail fast on errors
   - [ ] Report test results clearly

3. **Documentation**
   - Add a "CI/CD" section to README with:
     - Badge showing pipeline status
     - Instructions for contributors
     - How to run tests locally before pushing

##### Example: GitHub Actions (Reference)

A basic GitHub Actions workflow is already provided at `.github/workflows/ci.yml`. You may:

- Enhance the existing workflow
- Migrate to a different provider
- Add additional features (caching, parallelization, deployment)

##### Bonus Points

- Set up automatic deployment to a cloud platform (Railway, Render, Fly.io, etc.)
- Add security scanning (Snyk, CodeQL, Trivy)
- Implement branch protection rules
- Add Slack/Discord notifications for build status

---

### Challenge 4: Observability Dashboard (Bonus)

#### Your Mission

Build a simple React UI that integrates with **Sentry** for error tracking and **OpenTelemetry** for distributed tracing, providing visibility into the download service's health and performance.

#### Testing Sentry Integration

The API includes a built-in way to test Sentry error tracking:

```bash
# Trigger an intentional error for Sentry testing
curl -X POST "http://localhost:3000/v1/download/check?sentry_test=true" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# Response: {"error":"Internal Server Error","message":"Sentry test error..."}
# This error should appear in your Sentry dashboard!
```

#### Requirements

##### 1. React Application Setup

Create a React application (using Vite or Next.js) that:

- Connects to this download API
- Displays download job status
- Shows real-time error tracking
- Visualizes trace data

##### 2. Sentry Integration

**Features to implement**:

- [ ] Error boundary wrapping the entire app
- [ ] Automatic error capture for failed API calls
- [ ] User feedback dialog on errors
- [ ] Performance monitoring for page loads
- [ ] Custom error logging for business logic errors

##### 3. OpenTelemetry Integration

**Features to implement**:

- [ ] Trace propagation from frontend to backend
- [ ] Custom spans for user interactions
- [ ] Correlation of frontend and backend traces
- [ ] Display trace IDs in the UI for debugging

##### 4. Dashboard Features

Build a dashboard that displays:

| Feature             | Description                                  |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Health Status       | Real-time API health from `/health` endpoint |
| Download Jobs       | List of initiated downloads with status      |
| Error Log           | Recent errors captured by Sentry             |
| Trace Viewer        | Link to Jaeger UI or embedded trace view     |
| Performance Metrics | API response times, success/failure rates    |

##### 5. Correlation

Ensure end-to-end traceability:

```
User clicks "Download" button
    │
    ▼
Frontend creates span with trace-id: abc123
    │
    ▼
API request includes header: traceparent: 00-abc123-...
    │
    ▼
Backend logs include: trace_id=abc123
    │
    ▼
Errors in Sentry tagged with: trace_id=abc123
```

#### Deliverables

1. **React Application** in a `frontend/` directory
2. **Docker Compose** update to include:
   - Frontend service
   - Jaeger UI accessible for trace viewing
3. **Documentation** on how to:
   - Set up Sentry project and get DSN
   - Configure OpenTelemetry collector
   - Run the full stack locally

#### Resources

- [Sentry React SDK](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/react/)
- [OpenTelemetry JavaScript](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/)
- [Jaeger UI](https://www.jaegertracing.io/)
- [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/)

---

## Technical Requirements

| Requirement    | Version    |
| -------------- | ---------- |
| Node.js        | >= 24.10.0 |
| npm            | >= 10.x    |
| Docker         | >= 24.x    |
| Docker Compose | >= 2.x     |

## Tech Stack

- **Runtime**: Node.js 24 with native TypeScript support
- **Framework**: [Hono](https://hono.dev) - Ultra-fast web framework
- **Validation**: [Zod](https://zod.dev) with OpenAPI integration
- **Storage**: AWS S3 SDK (S3-compatible)
- **Observability**: OpenTelemetry + Jaeger
- **Error Tracking**: Sentry
- **Documentation**: Scalar OpenAPI UI

## Quick Start

### Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Create environment file
cp .env.example .env

# Start development server (with hot reload, 5-15s delays)
npm run dev

# Or start production server (10-120s delays)
npm run start
```

The server will start at http://localhost:3000

- API Documentation: http://localhost:3000/docs
- OpenAPI Spec: http://localhost:3000/openapi

### Using Docker

```bash
# Development mode (with Jaeger tracing)
npm run docker:dev

# Production mode
npm run docker:prod
```

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# Server
NODE_ENV=development
PORT=3000

# S3 Configuration
S3_REGION=us-east-1
S3_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:9000
S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID=minioadmin
S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=minioadmin
S3_BUCKET_NAME=downloads
S3_FORCE_PATH_STYLE=true

# Observability (optional)
SENTRY_DSN=
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4318

# Rate Limiting
REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS=30000
RATE_LIMIT_WINDOW_MS=60000
RATE_LIMIT_MAX_REQUESTS=100

# CORS
CORS_ORIGINS=*

# Download Delay Simulation
DOWNLOAD_DELAY_ENABLED=true
DOWNLOAD_DELAY_MIN_MS=10000
DOWNLOAD_DELAY_MAX_MS=200000
```

## API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint                | Description                         |
| ------ | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| GET    | `/`                     | Welcome message                     |
| GET    | `/health`               | Health check with storage status    |
| POST   | `/v1/download/initiate` | Initiate bulk download job          |
| POST   | `/v1/download/check`    | Check single file availability      |
| POST   | `/v1/download/start`    | Start download with simulated delay |

### Testing the Long-Running Download

```bash
# With dev server (5-15s delays)
npm run dev
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'

# With production server (10-120s delays) - may timeout!
npm run start
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/v1/download/start \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"file_id": 70000}'
```

## Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start dev server (5-15s delays, hot reload)
npm run start        # Start production server (10-120s delays)
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
npm run lint:fix     # Fix linting issues
npm run format       # Format code with Prettier
npm run format:check # Check code formatting
npm run test:e2e     # Run E2E tests
npm run docker:dev   # Start with Docker (development)
npm run docker:prod  # Start with Docker (production)
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   └── index.ts          # Main application entry point
├── scripts/
│   ├── e2e-test.ts       # E2E test suite
│   └── run-e2e.ts        # Test runner with server management
├── docker/
│   ├── Dockerfile.dev    # Development Dockerfile
│   ├── Dockerfile.prod   # Production Dockerfile
│   ├── compose.dev.yml   # Development Docker Compose
│   └── compose.prod.yml  # Production Docker Compose
├── .github/
│   └── workflows/
│       └── ci.yml        # GitHub Actions CI pipeline
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── eslint.config.mjs
```

## Security Features

- Request ID tracking for distributed tracing
- Rate limiting with configurable windows
- Security headers (HSTS, X-Frame-Options, etc.)
- CORS configuration
- Input validation with Zod schemas
- Path traversal prevention for S3 keys
- Graceful shutdown handling

## License

MIT
